Data Transformation Plans
ONE allows you to transform data using data transformation plans, which are visual representations of data processing job definitions. This guide details the steps to create and run a transformation plan to process input data, transform it, and define the output format.

Prerequisites
Ensure the data source connection of the catalog item you want to use in your transformation plan has data export enabled. In the Data Catalog, go to Sources > [your data source] > Connections. In the three dots menu of your connection, select "Show details," and ensure "Enable exporting and loading of data" is enabled. If not, add the missing credentials.

Create Plan to Transform a Catalog Item

In Data Quality > Transformation plans, select "Create".


Provide a name for the new plan (e.g., "Customers transformation plan") and select "Save."


On the plan canvas, add a data input (catalog item input) and data output (ONE Data writer step).


Configure the steps:

Add attributed step to create a new attribute (e.g., full_name) using ONE expressions.
Delete attributes step to remove surplus attributes from the output.
Filter step, for instance, to filter out records from a specific country.

Optionally preview data to verify the plan is functioning according to your expectations.


Validate the plan to check for any errors.


Run the transformation plan to trigger the flow of data through the plan.


Available Steps

Catalog Item Input: Reads data from the selected catalog item.

ONE Data Reader: Reads data from a selected ONE Data catalog item.

File Output: Writes data into a text file in ONE Object Storage.

ONE Data Writer: Writes data into new or existing ONE Data catalog items.

Database Output: Writes transformed catalog items back to the data catalog.

Add Attributes: Adds new attributes using ONE expressions.

Condition: Splits the data flow into two streams based on a ONE expression condition.

Delete Attributes: Deletes selected attributes from the input.

Filter: Filters out records that do not pass a ONE expression condition.

Embedded Component: Inserts a component from ONE Desktop.

Embedded Transformation Plan: Inserts an existing transformation plan created in ONE.

Join: Joins two separate data flows into a single data flow using keys.

Split: Splits data into three streams based on a ONE expression condition.

Union Streams: Merges input formats of two defined inputs into a single output format.

Monitoring Project Post-Processing Input: Inputs data and DQ evaluation results from a monitoring project.

Data Preview

Select a step to see a preview of the resultant data.

If the step has multiple outputs, select for which output you want to view the data (e.g., out_true or out_false).

Manual recompute is required to update the preview after editing the plan.

By following these steps, you can create and run effective data transformation plans in ONE.